; Author: Bu Kun ; Title: Basic concept of WebGIS

Basic concept of WebGIS
=======================

Geographic information system GIS
---------------------------------

With the development of computer, network and database technology and
the deepening of application, the development of geographic information
system (GIS) technology presents new characteristics and trends, and
WebGIS based on Internet is one of them. In addition to being applied to
the traditional government management fields such as land, resources and
environment, WebGIS is also promoting the rapid development of
industries closely related to people’s life, such as vehicle navigation,
mobile location service, intelligent transportation, rescue and disaster
relief, urban facility management, modern logistics and big data
analysis.

With the rapid development and wide use of the Internet, people’s demand
for geographic information systems is also increasing. The Internet has
become a new GIS operating platform. trend. WebGIS has also really
become a tool for the masses. At present, the application of network
technology in GIS mainly has three modes: centralized mode, C/S mode and
B/S mode. Among them, WebGIS based on B/S mode is a new mode, which is
used to solve the problem of C/S mode. The problems faced by WebGIS and
meet the needs of users for information management.

The full name of GIS is Geographic Information System, and the full
Chinese name is Geographic Information System. It is a technical system
that collects, stores, manages, calculates, analyzes, displays and
describes the relevant geographical distribution data in the whole or
part of the earth’s surface (including the atmosphere) space with the
support of computer hardware and software systems. Since the “father of
GIS” Roger Tomlinson coined the acronym GIS (Geographic Information
System) in the 1960s, the field has changed dramatically. Today,
students encounter many of the same basics in related courses such as
Geographic Information Science, Surveying and Mapping, and Spatial
Information Systems. The G in GIS has been interpreted as “global” and
“geospatial”, rather than the original “geographic”; S is also not the
original “system”, but “science”, “services” and “studies”. But looking
for one word to describe what all of these things have in common,
“geospatial” might be the best option.

The most easy-to-understand explanation is that GIS is the use of
surveying and mapping to generate paper maps or aerial photography and
satellite photography to generate images, and then store these data in
the computer, express them in the form of maps or pictures, and then
according to actual production, life and Various needs in scientific
research, and then provide specific processed data.

The development of Internet technology
--------------------------------------

The World Wide Web has changed every aspect of human society, as well as
geographic information systems. The convergence of the World Wide Web
and Geographic Information Systems has given rise to the emerging field
of World Wide Web Geographic Information Systems (WebGIS). Web GIS has
developed rapidly since its appearance in 1993, and its unique use and
charm have become one of the main attractions for people to use the
Internet.

The enormous impact of the World Wide Web and its extensive connectivity
has benefited GIS, moving it out of offices and laboratories, into the
computers of thousands of households, into the mobile phones of hundreds
of millions of people, and GIS is widely used in government, enterprise,
education and scientific research and other fields, and penetrates into
every aspect of our daily life.

Everything that happens in the world is associated with a place. Knowing
where something is and why it is there is crucial for people to make
good decisions. GIS (geographic information system; or geographic
information science) is a technology and science that deals with issues
related to geographic location and can collect, store, manage, analyze,
express and share geographic data to help people make correct decisions.

Geographic information system appeared earlier than the Internet. In
1962, Roger Tomlinson developed the world’s first operable geographic
information system for the Department of forestry and agricultural
development of the federal government of Canada, called “Canadian
geographic information system”, which is used for detailed survey,
statistics and planning of land use in Canada.

Roger Tomlinson founded GIS and devoted itself to promoting the
development of GIS methodology, so it is called “the father of GIS”.

Although GIS is usually used to compile maps, its functions are far more
than that. It has powerful analytical functions and can correlate many
seemingly unrelated data based on their common geographic location,
carry out comprehensive analysis to unearth relationships, laws and
trends that are hidden or not easily displayed in spreadsheets or
statistical software packages to support people in making scientific
decisions. GIS can abstract the real world into a series of spatial data
layers, such as land use, elevation, imagery, neighborhoods, roads, and
business customers. GIS can combine these layers in a variety of ways to
draw a variety of thematic maps, and GIS can further analyze these
layers and extract a lot of useful information to solve problems such as
the following:

In the past few decades, the development and application of GIS have
benefited a lot in many fields. The emergence of the World wide Web
provides a broader stage for GIS. Let GIS go to more industries and into
thousands of households.

What is WebGIS?
---------------

Before giving a clear definition of WebGIS, it is necessary to
distinguish several related concepts, namely: Network GIS, Internet GIS
or Internet GIS and World Wide Web GIS (WebGIS). WebGIS is often
referred to as Web Mapping in foreign countries. ). Distinguishing these
concepts will help to correctly understand and apply WebGIS.

Among all these concepts, network GIS contains the most extensive
content, including C/S or B/S mode, multi-layer, distributed GIS
applications based on various distributed computing models, which can be
based on J2EE framework. , can also be based on distributed computing
frameworks such as COM/DCOM and CORBA.

The networks here include local area networks, wide area networks, the
Internet, and various wireless networks. The protocol used in network
GIS can be either TCP/IP or other protocols at various layers, such as
HTTP, WAP, GPRS and Bluetooth protocols.

Internet GIS or Internet GIS is a subset of network GIS, it is a network
GIS based on TCP/IP protocol, so it can be deployed and run on the
Internet. These GIS can be either C/S mode or B/S mode. Google Earth
software of Google is a client software of the C/S mode network map
service provided by Google.

Therefore, WebGIS is a B/S mode distributed computer application system
based on HTTP protocol in the Internet or Intranet environment to store,
manage, analyze, publish and share geographic information.

WebGIS can be regarded as a subset of network GIS and Internet GIS. At
the same time, it is a distributed GIS built on higher-level application
protocols. It is a technically more complex network GIS. , due to the
needs of tasks such as load balancing, other distributed computing
models are usually used.

Beginning in the 1980s, a large number of GIS software appeared
basically based on C/S architecture, that is, professional GIS software
must be installed on the machine first, and then users can use these GIS
software according to their needs. Of course, this desktop-side GIS
software has its natural advantages, such as relatively simple
development, no need for Internet support, more complex functions, and
relatively quick response. But at the same time, its shortcomings cannot
be ignored. The first thing that bears the brunt is the inconvenience of
promotion. The reason for the inconvenience of promotion lies in the
natural disadvantages of the C/S system itself: it is not convenient for
updating, it is not convenient for cross-platform, and it is not
convenient for users to use it without installing the specified client.

Since the beginning of this century, the Internet has entered a stage of
explosive growth, and the laying of the network and the improvement of
the speed of the network have greatly increased, which provides a solid
environment for the development of WebGIS. As a result, more and more
GIS systems based on B/S begin to provide services, and with the
emergence and maturity of RIA (rich client) technology and AJAX (dynamic
web page) technology, WebGIS can basically show the same effects and
functions as C/S.The great development of WebGIS is also the demand of
users. The large-scale expansion of service providers such as Google
Maps and Baidu Maps is the best proof. What is WebGIS is an application
direction that presents the functions that GIS can provide to users with
B/S technology, so that users can use these GIS functions only on the
browser.

The basic characteristics of WebGIS
-----------------------------------

Web GIS can be simply defined as GIS based on Web environment. At
present, the Internet/Intranet is rapidly expanding and developing at an
alarming rate. Under such a situation, how to introduce GIS into the
Internet/Intranet world, so that GIS can make full use of the advantages
of the Internet, has become an important subject of GIS development
research.

From the perspective of system integration, synthesizing the viewpoints
of OpenGIS, ESR, and Intergraph, GIS based on the World Wide Web should
have the following characteristics: First, Web GIS is an open system.
Focus on data sharing, software reuse, cross-platform operation, and
ease of integration.

Simply put, it can share geographic data from multiple sources, multiple
scales, and stored in different locations; it can integrate with non-GIS
systems (such as Delphi) through technical means such as object
management, middleware, and plug-ins; and can use Java, CORBA, DCOM and
other technologies work together across platforms and support the use of
client/server models.

Open systems benefit GIS users, software developers, and system
integrators alike. Second, Web GIS is suitable for running in the World
Wide Web environment. Integrating GIS software with Web server, through
common browsers, users can manipulate network GIS anywhere and enjoy
geospatial information services, thereby expanding GIS into a public
service system; at the same time, it expands map publishing channels,
reduces data distribution costs, and improves degree of geographic data
sharing.

Finally, Web GIS supports data distribution and distributed processing.
The GIS server provides GIS services for local and remote users, such as
geographic data catalog services, geographic data access services,
geographic spatial analysis services, geographic model system services,
and geographic spatial visualization services. Through interoperability
technology, a GIS processing process can be coordinated and completed by
multiple GIS servers, which share the distributed data objects and run
cooperatively on multiple different platforms to maximize the use of
network resources.

The composition of WebGIS
-------------------------

To understand the concept of WebGIS, you should pay attention to the
following points:

-  HTTP protocol: Among many web technologies, HTTP is the main protocol
   used by servers and clients to communicate with each other.
-  The simplest WebGIS is a two-tier architecture, consisting of a
   server and one or more clients. WebGIS includes not only the client
   you see, but also the server that the client depends on, which may be
   a server on the Internet or a cloud computing center. Sometimes the
   server and client can be installed on the same computer, but
   logically they are still two separate units.
-  A single WebGIS is usually a three-tier architecture, including data
   layer, logic layer (or middle layer) and client (or presentation
   layer). With the popularity of the geographic aggregation (mashup;
   see Chapter 4) approach, a WebGIS often leverages the services of one
   or more other WebGIS to form an n-tier (n > 3) structure.
-  WebGIS and desktop GIS are constantly infiltrating each other. On the
   one hand, WebGIS relies on desktop GIS to create basic resources such
   as data and maps; on the other hand, desktop GIS is also expanding,
   gradually incorporating the functions of WebGIS. For example, ArcMap,
   a traditional desktop GIS, has also joined the functions of WebGIS
   and can be used as a client of WebGIS. For example, you can use
   basemaps from ArcGIS Online, the US Geological Survey, Microsoft Bing
   Maps, or others in ArcMap without having to purchase and install the
   basemap data yourself. The open source desktop software QGIS also has
   the function of publishing map services.

Geographic information system is mainly composed of hardware, software,
data and users. The distance between these components is increasing and
further separated. This phenomenon is very interesting. In the 1960s and
1970s, these components of GIS were usually installed on a computer. In
WebGIS, these components are further separated, and the client and
server can be separated from each other. With the advent of technologies
such as Web services and aggregation (mashups; see Chapter 4), one
client can use the data of one server and the analysis functions of
another, which further separates the various components of GIS.

The essential key elements of WebGIS are as follows:

-  The server has a URL so that the client can find it on the Web;
-  The client sends the request to the server according to the HTTP
   specification;
-  The server performs the requested GIS operation and sends a response
   to the client via HTTP;
-  The response sent to the client can be in a variety of formats, such
   as HTML, binary images, XML (Extensible markup language), or JSON
   (JavaScript object tables).

The geographic information system establishes a mathematical model for
the surface information, and uses computer technology to store, process
and analyze the data. Among them, the geographic information system that
uses Web technology is WebGIS. The key features of WebGIS are
object-oriented, distributed and interoperable. It encapsulates GIS data
and functions into objects, and these objects support distributed
computing and can be stored on different servers; objects can be
exchanged and interacted easily through a consistent communication
protocol.

WebGIS is World Wide Web GIS, which is a B/S mode InternetGIS. From a
technical point of view, WebGIS should have the following basic
characteristics:

-  Publish dynamic web applications through a web server.
-  The client is a common web browser, such as IE, Firefox, etc.
-  The user interacts with the map through a web browser.
-  WebGIS is a distributed GIS in B/S mode based on HTTP protocol.

It uses HTTP protocol to realize the communication between the browser
and the web server. Users send requests to the web server through the
web browser. The server usually returns interactive documents, document
fragments or geographic data in other formats in HTML or XML format
containing map information to users.

Advantages of WebGIS
--------------------

Compared to traditional desktop or LAN-based GIS, Web GIS has the
following advantages:

1.Wider access
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Customers can access the latest data on multiple servers located in
different places at the same time, and this unique advantage of
Internet/Intranet greatly facilitates the data management of GIS, and
makes the data management and synthesis of distributed multiple data
sources easier to achieve.

2.Platform independence
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No matter what kind of machine the server / client is, no matter what
kind of GIS software the Web GIS Server uses, due to the use of a
general web browser, users can access the Web GIS data transparently,
carry out the dynamic combination of distributed components and the
collaborative processing and analysis of spatial data on the machine or
a server, and realize the sharing of remote heterogeneous data.

3.System costs can be reduced on a large scale
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Ordinary GIS needs to be equipped with expensive professional GIS
software for each client, and users often use only some basic functions,
which actually causes a great waste. Web GIS usually only needs to use a
Web browser (sometimes with some plug-ins) on the client side. The
software cost is significantly less than a full set of professional GIS.
In addition, maintenance savings due to the simplicity of the client
cannot be ignored.

4.Simpler operation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It is necessary to widely promote GIS and make the GIS system accepted
by the majority of ordinary users. Rather than being limited to a few
professionally trained professional users, it is necessary to reduce the
requirements for system operation. A general-purpose web browser is
undoubtedly the best choice for reducing operational complexity.

5.Balance efficient computing loads
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Most of the traditional GIS uses the file server structure, and its
processing capacity is completely dependent on the client, and the
efficiency is low. However, some advanced Web GIS can make full use of
network resources, and hand over basic and global processing to the
server for execution, while simple operations with a small amount of
data are directly completed by the client. This computing mode can
flexibly and efficiently seek a reasonable distribution of computing
load and network traffic load between the server and the client, and is
an ideal optimization mode.

The method of selecting WebGIS development tools
------------------------------------------------

For developers of WebGIS applications You can comprehensively examine
how to choose an appropriate development tool from the following
aspects:

1.Usability

Especially when developing WebGIS applications for public services, the
ease of use of development tools is very important, because the
functions of such WebGIS applications are not as powerful as
professional GIS applications, but a WebGIS site with strong
interactivity, practicality and beauty is developed. However, it is very
important. Therefore, many WebGIS development platforms provide users
with ways to develop WebGIS applications in the form of custom
templates, tag libraries, style libraries, and JavaScript function
libraries or class libraries.

2.Platform independence

This mainly refers to the operating platform of WebGIS on the server
side. The server side can be based on Windows NT or UNIX platform, but
it is best to be cross-platform or platform-independent. WebGIS products
developed based on Java or providing services by CGI usually have this
feature.

3.Friendliness of client interaction

The client of WebGIS is generally a browser. HTML-based browsers have
very limited interactivity with maps. In order to enhance the customer’s
ability to interact with the map, many WebGIS products develop
corresponding plug-ins (Plug-in) and ActiveX controls for their client
browsers, or use JavaScript/DOM to enhance the client’s interactivity.

4.Data transmission and display technology

For all WebGIS tools, the server-side processing is in vector mode. The
grid map and vector map displayed by the client have their own
advantages and disadvantages: the grid image client does not need to
download any plug-ins or ActiveX controls, but the interactivity is
relatively poor; Vector map is just the opposite, but the security of
the client is often not very good. Both methods need to adopt some
strategy to reduce the bandwidth of map data transmission on the
network.

5.Scalable System Architecture

WebGIS applications generally occupy a large amount of system resources
of the server. A good WebGIS application should be able to make full use
of server resources and have scalability in both horizontal and vertical
directions. It can dynamically start the number of services according to
the site’s traffic and computing volume, and perform reasonable load
balancing among the map application servers.
