; Author: Bu Kun ; Title: Understand the interface of GeoServer

Understand the interface of GeoServer
=====================================

After logging in to GeoServer, now focus on the layout.

As you can see in the screenshot below, the GeoServer Web interface has
three main areas.

.. figure:: ./geoserver_index_x7w.png
   :alt: GeoServer home page interface

   GeoServer home page interface

The central area is where the information is displayed; the elements in
it vary depending on what you do. After logging in, it will show you
brief information about the configuration data, as well as warnings or
errors that should be corrected. The version number is displayed at the
end, and there is a link to the administrator’s mailbox.

On the right, a list shows the capabilities of GeoServer. The acronyms
listed refer to the standard OGC protocol; We will discuss some of these
protocols in detail, each of which supports at least one version. These
numbers are links to XML documents that describe exactly what data and
operations are supported by each protocol. They are an invaluable
resource for customers willing to use your services.

On the left, a directory lists the configuration areas. Each area
contains links to administrative actions. When you click one of the
options, contextual options are displayed in the central area. We will
explore each area in the next paragraph.

About and status
----------------

This area provides information about run-time variables and how to
describe GeoServer to clients connected to GeoServer.

.. figure:: ./image42_x70.jpg
   :alt: image42

   image42

Server status
-------------

The server status gives you a good understanding of the main
configuration parameters and information about the current state of
GeoServer. This information is organized in a tabular view. In addition
to providing information, this view allows you to perform some
maintenance operations. We will describe the main items listed in the
following screenshot:

.. figure:: ./server_stutas_xn8.png
   :alt: Server status of GeoServer

   Server status of GeoServer

1.Lock

Using the transactional Web feature Service (WFS-T), the client can edit
the configured feature type. To avoid data corruption, GeoServer locks
the data that needs to be traded until the transaction is completed. If
the number displayed is greater than 1, your data is doing some
transactions. Free Locks button allows you to reset a suspended editing
session and delete all orphaned processes to release locks that may have
been abandoned.

2.Connect

This displays the number of vector data storage connections. Vector data
repositories are repositories configured for feature persistence.

3.Memory usage

This shows how much memory GeoServer is using. You can run the garbage
collector manually by clicking the available memory button. This
destroys Java objects marked for deletion.

4.JVM version and font

This is the version of the Java virtual machine (JVM) used by GeoServer.
You configured it in Chapter 2, getting started with GeoServer, during
installation. You will also see a list of fonts seen by JVM and
GeoServer. Fonts are useful for rendering space feature labels. We will
discuss this in Chapter 6, layer styling.

5.JAI usage and configuration

The Java Advanced Imaging (JAI) library is used for image rendering and
for better performance when GeoServer processes raster data, as does Web
CoverageService (WCS) and Web Map Service (WMS) requests. We will
install native JAI support in Chapter 11, “Tuning GeoServer in
Production”.

6.Update sequence

This will show how many times the server configuration has been updated.
At the time of this writing, the amount of information is not that
large. Developers seem to plan to use it to let you know that your
configuration file has been updated from outside the application. It
could be a rest call.

7.Resource caching

GeoServer also caches connections to storage, feature type definitions,
external drawings, font definitions, and CRS definitions. You can press
the clear button to force these geoservers to reopen storage and re-read
image and font information.

8.Configuration and directory

This option is useful for updating the configuration without having to
restart the service. GeoServer keeps the configuration data in memory.
If an external process updates a file that contains configuration
parameters, you can force GeoServer to reload data from disk.

GeoServer log
-------------

From here you can preview the current log file or download the full
content from the link at the bottom. It can be useful when you cannot
access the file system where the actual log files are stored.

.. figure:: ./image44_x2b.png
   :alt: GeoServer log

   GeoServer log

The record of each execution is also saved in the log, and the
configuration location of the saved location is in the global.

.. figure:: ./log_xyu.png
   :alt: log

   log

Contact information
-------------------

In this panel, information about the organization and people managing
the service should be inserted. The default configuration pays homage to
the ancient cartographer Claudius Ptolemy
(http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ptolemy). This information is included in
the WMS functionality and is a reference for users.

About
-----

As it says, this is just build information and where to find the
entirety of the GeoServer documentation, bug tracker and wiki.

.. figure:: ./image45_xq9.png
   :alt: GeoServer about the interface

   GeoServer about the interface
